---
layout: post
title: My Ideal Job
tags: [random, job]
author_name: John
author_uri: http://twitter.com/johnduff
---

Well, I have recently found myself without a job so am in the processes
of looking for something. I thought this might be a good opportunity to
think about what I really want from a job / employer so that I can try
and find something that I’ll really enjoy. You end up spending most of
your waking life at work so you might as well enjoy it, right? I’ve
decided to put this up on my blog just in case the perfect employer
happens to stumble by :). Here it goes.

#### Working with Technologies I Love

This is number one on my list. I want to work with technology that I
love, something that I find really interesting and cutting edge. I love
programming Ruby. It is by far the most enjoyable programming language I
have ever worked with. That being said, I’ve started learning some
Objective-C and iPhone programming and though the language isn’t as nice
as Ruby, there’s something about programming a device that has a GPS,
camera, phone and so many other goodies that is so very cool.

#### Working with Smart, Fun People

This isn’t really second, more like equal to the first point. I want to
work somewhere that I will continually be learning from the people
around me. Smart might not be the only word to describe these people;
innovative, motivated, creative coworkers who will help me improve and
grow my skill set is a must. At the same time I want to be able to joke
around, have them over for BBQs and have fun with my coworkers.

#### Develop an Amazing Product

I want to work on something that I think is amazing, something that I’ll
go home and talk to my wife about, think about and work on whenever I
can. Difficult, engaging problems that will require me to think and come
up with interesting solutions are what I’m looking for. I want to make a
real contribution to the product, add new and interesting features and
continually improve the user experience.

#### Flexible

Living here in the Great White North it would be nice to work somewhere
that has a somewhat flexible schedule. Sometimes it’s a lot easier to
open up the laptop at home than braving the partially plowed streets and
icy roads.

#### Open Source Aware

Actually, not just aware of and using Open Source technologies, I want
to work somewhere that they actively contribute back to the Open Source
community. Somewhere that they encourage their developers to spend a
little bit of time working on and creating new Open Source projects.
I’ve made a few Open Source contributions that you can see on my [GitHub
Profile](http://github.com/jduff) but I would really like to do a lot
more.

#### Local (or Telecommute)

Though it does get cold here, my wife and I love where we live and
having our family close by. We have no real interest in packing
everything up and moving. I’m looking for something in the Ottawa area,
or someone who is willing to have an employee work remotely.

Well, that’s basically it, hopefully this perfect position exists. If
this sounds a lot like your business please check out my
[Resume](http://jduff.github.com/resume/) and get in touch.
