---
layout: post
title: Startup Boot Camp Reflection
tags: [programming, startup]
author_name: John
author_uri: http://twitter.com/johnduff
---

As I mentioned in an [earlier
post](http://jduff.github.com/2009/10/15/startup-boot-camp/) I attended
this local Ottawa event called [Startup Boot
Camp](http://www.theottawanetwork.com/startup-boot-camp/) on the
weekend. Well, I’ve got to say, this was one of the most interesting
events I’ve ever been to. Let me break down how the weekend went a
little bit.

### Day 1 (Friday 6pm - 9pm)

The first day started out with an introduction to the event, sponsors,
organizers and all that jazz. The didn’t waste any time and moved onto
the pitches. There were 8 ideas presented by some really energetic
people ranging from major hardware, software or a combination of the
two.

After voting on the pitches the bottom two were dropped and everyone
split off around whichever idea they found most interesting. The teams
ranged from 6-13 people with backgrounds in software, hardware,
marketing, sales, business development etc.

After getting to know my team a little bit we headed home to rest up a
little bit and get ready from the rest of the weekend.

### Day 2 (Saturday 9am - 6pm)

Today everyone gathered together in the main room to be introduced to
some of the mentors that would be available to help us develop our
pitches. We had financial experts, accountants, lawyers, operations
experts, human resources consultants, pretty much everything you might
need to get a business started.

After the quick introduction everyone split off into their groups to
start working any of the kinks out of their startup with the help of the
mentors. I’ve got to say, the experts they brought in were just
phenomenal. This event was well worth it just to be able to spend some
time with these people and to draw from all the experiences they have
had.

By mid afternoon we had most of the details figured out so we decided to
individually take a look at the slide deck we needed to put together and
jot down some ideas. By the end of the day we had a pretty good idea of
what we needed in the deck but still stuck around after 6 to go over
things a little bit more and split up some ‘homework’.

### Day 3 (Sunday 9am - 6pm)

Again, we started out with an introduction to a new set of mentors, no
messing around now though so we quickly broke off and got down to work.
Today was all about putting the slide deck together, making it look good
and making sure we had answers to all the questions the panel might ask.
Around 1pm we started practicing the presentation and tweaking anything
we still could based on the mentors comments.

At 3pm everyones back in the room for the pitches in front of the panel.
I found it really interesting how the presentations really seemed to
reflect on the team behind them. One team had an industrial designer as
the lead so their slide deck was super slick, they even had small
prototypes that they handed out to the judges. Other side decks really
showed the technical expertise of their group with detailed diagrams and
flow charts on how their products would work.

After presenting the judges asked some great questions and before
announcing the winner provided some feedback to each group on what they
really needed to look at to make their product work. All of this advice
was right on the money and, I would imagine, will help these startups
move forward in the future.

### In Closing

Well, in the end my team didn’t win the final prize but I think everyone
involved did get a lot out of the event, I know I did. My teammates were
an amazing group of people that I was really glad to have met and spent
the weekend working with, the mentors and judges gave a huge amount of
advice that would be next to impossible to easily get otherwise and I
had all kinds of fun.

Big thanks goes out to [Rick O’Conner](http://twitter.com/rickoco) and
the rest of the [Ottawa Network](http://www.theottawanetwork.com) for
putting together this event. Word is they’re already looking to do a
repeat of the [Startup Boot
Camp](http://www.theottawanetwork.com/startup-boot-camp/) in March so be
ready to sign up, I know I will be!
