---
layout: post
title: My Ideal Job
tags: [random, job]
author_name: John
author_uri: http://twitter.com/johnduff
---

Well, I have recently found myself without a job so am in the processes of looking for something. I thought this might be a good opportunity to think about what I really want from a job / employer so that I can try and find something that I'll really enjoy. You end up spending most of your waking life at work so you might as well enjoy it, right? I've decided to put this up on my blog just in case the perfect employer happens to stumble by :). Here it goes.

h4. Working with Technologies I Love

This is number one on my list. I want to work with technology that I love, something that I find really interesting and cutting edge. I love programming Ruby. It is by far the most enjoyable programming language I have ever worked with. That being said, I've started learning some Objective-C and iPhone programming and though the language isn't as nice as Ruby, there's something about programming a device that has a GPS, camera, phone and so many other goodies that is so very cool.

h4. Working with Smart, Fun People

This isn't really second, more like equal to the first point. I want to work somewhere that I will continually be learning from the people around me.	Smart might not be the only word to describe these people; innovative, motivated, creative coworkers who will help me improve and grow my skill set is a must. At the same time I want to be able to joke around, have them over for BBQs and have fun with my coworkers.

h4. Develop an Amazing Product

I want to work on something that I think is amazing, something that I'll go home and talk to my wife about, think about and work on whenever I can. Difficult, engaging problems that will require me to think and come up with interesting solutions are what I'm looking for. I want to make a real contribution to the product, add new and interesting features and continually improve the user experience.

h4. Flexible

Living here in the Great White North it would be nice to work somewhere that has a somewhat flexible schedule. Sometimes it's a lot easier to open up the laptop at home than braving the partially plowed streets and icy roads.

h4. Open Source Aware

Actually, not just aware of and using Open Source technologies, I want to work somewhere that they actively contribute back to the Open Source community. Somewhere that they encourage their developers to spend a little bit of time working on and creating new Open Source projects. I've made a few Open Source contributions that you can see on my "GitHub Profile":http://github.com/jduff but I would really like to do a lot more.

h4. Local (or Telecommute)

Though it does get cold here, my wife and I love where we live and having our family close by. We have no real interest in packing everything up and moving. I'm looking for something in the Ottawa area, or someone who is willing to have an employee work remotely.

Well, that's basically it, hopefully this perfect position exists. If this sounds a lot like your business please check out my "Resume":http://jduff.github.com/resume/ and get in touch.