---
layout: post
title: "One Month in At Shopify!"
tags: [ruby, rails, job]
author_name: John Duff
author_uri: http://twitter.com/johnduff
---

Like the headline says, I’m a month into my new job at
[Shopify](http://shopify.com) and it’s going great! I thought people
might be interested in hearing what it’s like getting started there.

### What is Shopify?

You haven’t heard of Shopify? Where have you been?? Just kidding, it’s
okay if you haven’t heard of them before :). Shopify is a web
application that lets you set up an online store to sell your goods. It
integrates with a tone of services for acceptings payments, shipping and
anything else you might need to run an online store. This is all done
using amazing technologies like [Ruby on
Rails](http://rubyonrails.org/), [jQuery](http://jquery.com/),
[Redis](http://redis.io/), [AWS](http://aws.amazon.com/) and much more.
Did I mention we’re location in the [ByWard
Market](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byward_Market) in downtown Ottawa?
Yes, it is awesome.

### The First Day

So, my first day. The hours are pretty loose, people come in anywhere
between 8 and 10am, I like to come in around 9 am myself. So I come in
and I’m met by Brittany in HR and we start out with a bit of paperwork,
then the fun begins. It starts out with getting a big gift bag with my
‘welcome package’ and what a welcome it is. Gift cards, some chocolate,
a notebook and some Shopify schwage. Then we walk over to the one free
desk in the main dev area, or ‘The Pit’, where I will be sitting. A nice
big Cinema Display is already sitting there, but no laptop, we had to go
over to the Apple Store and get a new one of those.

Once I’m all set with a desk and computer I spent a little time getting
things installed, [my dotfiles](https://github.com/jduff/dotfiles) setup
and Shopify checked out running. Next up I spent some time with Dennis
Theisen who points me to a couple of bugs in the [Partners
Area](http://www.shopify.com/partners) of Shopify. I spent the rest of
the day fixing the bugs Dennis assigned me and a few more things that I
found along the way. I got to put some bug fixes into code review and
the code went into the master branch that day and in production the
next. I’ve got to say that is pretty satisfying; first day in and
already committing code.

### Day Two

For my second day I spent the morning pair programming with [Jesse
Storimer](http://jstorimer.com/), continuing on the invoicing
refactoring that I was helping him with during my interview pairing.
It’s always fun working with Jesse, I always learn something new and on
top of that he’s a VIM guy as well :). After the pairing I spent some
time fixing up some of the other bugs I found in the [Partners
Area](http://www.shopify.com/partners) the day before. I’m probably
skipping over all the fun stuff like going out to lunch in the [ByWard
Market](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byward_Market), talking with some
of my awesome new coworkers and all that stuff, but be sure lots of fun
stuff is happening everyday.

### The rest of the Month

The rest of the month has went by crazy fast and I’ve already gotten a
chance to work on a lot of different things. I’ve done a little bit of
work on [ActiveMerchant](https://github.com/Shopify/active_merchant),
added SSL to the [Partners Area](http://www.shopify.com/partners), fixed
a few IE and other bugs, some work with invoicing, Google Base and a
little bit of work for the [contest we just
launched](http://www.shopify.com/contest). A pretty busy month, but
that’s the way I like it. Oh ya, I’m also working on a [Shopify
App](http://www.shopify.com/partners/apps) in my Friday afternoon time.
It has been great so far and I’m looking forward to every new day of it.

If any of this sounds pretty cool to you [we are
hiring](http://www.shopify.com/careers) for a number of different
positions. If you want to know more just give me a shout or send in your
resume.
