---
layout: post
title: More Difficult than I Thought
tags: [blogging]
author_name: John
author_uri: http://twitter.com/johnduff
---

<p>Well, I&#39;ve been blogging for a a couple weeks now, I have 6 posts of questionable quality and I&#39;ve got to say this is pretty hard.&#160; I always knew this would take a bit o work, but I figured a couple minutes each day and I could have a post or two a week.&#160; Man was I wrong.</p><p>The first thing I&#39;ve found is that taking a minute here and there doesn&#39;t work so well for me.&#160; Each time I come back to a piece of writing and try to pick up where I left off it doesn&#39;t end up making&#160; as much sense.&#160; I need to sit down and get, at the very least, chunks done, preferably the whole piece.</p><p>Research is a pain.&#160; I had been leading up to this blog for a long time now and had a number of ideas to blog about jotted down but it&#39;s still pretty difficult to do all the leg work.&#160; I would remember about blog posts that I had read that would be great to link to for an article but of course there&#39;s no way I&#39;m going to find it again after a couple of months.&#160; </p><p>I tend to write most of my posts in notepad, with all the links dumped in below what I&#39;m writing.&#160; I then copy it into Typepad and add all the links in after.&#160; This ends up taking a lot of time, scrolling through the post to try and find everything.&#160; I could write it directly in they Typepad interface and add the links as I go but I feel like that cuts into my thought process.</p><p>There have also been a couple of articles that I got everything written up but haven&#39;t posted yet (a TC50 one specifically) because I feel like I&#39;m being pretty harsh in the article and I&#39;m not sure what people will think about it.&#160; This article also got very long so I was presented with another dilemma; do I post this long rant or split it into two smaller pieces?</p><p>I&#39;m sure this is only the beginning, I haven&#39;t been doing this long so there&#39;s bound to be more hurdles to face.&#160; I&#39;ve decided to take all these things that are making blogging difficult for me and turn them around so it&#39;ll be easier.&#160; So, here it is, my list of guidelines for getting started blogging.</p><ol>

<li>Block out an hour or two of solid time to do writing and turn off all distractions</li>
<li>Don&#39;t link to everything under the sun.&#160; If it&#39;s really important add a link, or add the references at the end of the post.</li>
<li>Don&#39;t worry about the rest of the world, write what YOU want.</li>
<li>Use a desktop app to write posts.&#160; Safer for network loss and more screen real-estate.</li>
<li>Don&#39;t put off writing about something.&#160; The longer you wait the harder it&#39;ll be.</li>

</ol>
<p><br />Hopefully I&#39;ll be adding to this list and I&#39;d love to hear any other suggestions people might have.</p>