---
layout: post
title: Startup Boot Camp
tags: [programming, startup]
author_name: John
author_uri: http://twitter.com/johnduff
---

A couple weeks ago I heard about an event called "Startup Boot Camp":http://www.theottawanetwork.com/startup-boot-camp/ that is happening in Ottawa October 23-25th. The idea is to bring together a number of startup minded individuals and form teams around startup ideas. You then take the weekend to work on the idea and at the end the best one gets a prize to be used to incorporate the business. Here is an excerpt from the "blog post announcing the event":http://www.theottawanetwork.com/startup-boot-camp/.

bq. The event will place 75-100 people into functional business teams around ideas for businesses. The participants, composed of developers, business managers, start-up enthusiasts, marketing gurus, accountants, lawyers, graphic artists and other roles will work together during the week end. At the end of 54 hours, they will have turned a business idea into a business plan ready to start on the Monday. A review panel at the end of Sunday’s presentation’s will determine which of the opportunities is the best developed and award a prize of $5,000 as the first seed money to start the business (e.g. incorporation costs, start a website, etc.). Similar networking events have evolved very successfully in other parts of North America with this one being the first in Ottawa.

I've just signed up and anyone else who might be interested should "do the same":http://tonstartupoct09.eventbrite.com/. Even if you don't win the prize and "land your dream job":http://jduff.github.com/2009/10/08/my-ideal-job/ it should be a great opportunity to meet with like minded individuals and have some fun.