---
layout: post
title: "mySQL, Rails and OS X Fun"
tags: [programming, mysql, ruby, rails, osx]
author_name: John
author_uri: http://twitter.com/johnduff
---

In the last little while I started working on a Rails project that had been targeting an older version of mySQL. I ran into a few confusing problems while getting started so I thought I'd bring together all the various mySQL and Rails related info I came across to fix my problems into one place.

h3. Problem: ActiveRecord failing with a default field value of blank

This is a problem that a few people have posted on "ruby-forum":http://www.ruby-forum.com/topic/197243 without getting much of a response, but what is there pointed me in the right direction. The main problem is that older versions of mySQL (pre 5.0.45 I believe) treat a NULL value inserted into a string column as a blank string. Newer versions of mySQL fix this issue but this fix causes some confusing behaviour.

What happens in the older version is maybe you forget to pass a value for that NOT NULL string; mySQL happily treats that as a blank string and gives you no errors. When you upgrade mySQL to a version that 'fixes' this you end up with all kinds of errors because the constraint isn't being met anymore.

h4. Solution

Well, if you don't actually need the constraint remove it, otherwise explicitly send a value so the constraint is met. Update your tests and validations so you're passing and checking that the correct values are being passed.

h3. Problem: Error: uninitialized constant MysqlCompat::MysqlRes

Another one that also shows up on a "ruby forum post":http://www.ruby-forum.com/topic/192550. The root of this problem is that on OS X the mysql gem has to be told where the installed mySQL libraries are and which architecture your machine is.

h4. Solution

I found the solution "here":http://wonko.com/post/how-to-install-the-mysqlruby-gem-on-mac-os-x-leopard but had to modify the gem install slightly for my 64 bit machine.

{% highlight bash %}
  sudo env ARCHFLAGS="-arch x86_64" gem install mysql -- \
    --with-mysql-dir=/usr/local/mysql --with-mysql-lib=/usr/local/mysql/lib \
    --with-mysql-include=/usr/local/mysql/include
  
{% endhighlight %}

This might be slightly different depending on where mysql ended up on your machine and your machines architecture.

h3. Problem: mySQL can't install because a newer version exists

Or, removing mySQL for real. While dealing with my first problem I tried installing and uninstalling different versions of mySQL along the way the mySQL install got angry because some files weren't removed and wouldn't install the version I wanted.

h4. Solution

I managed to get mySQL off my machine by combining the approaches from a "blog post":http://akrabat.com/2008/09/11/uninstalling-mysql-on-mac-os-x-leopard/ and an answer found on "Stack Overflow":http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1436425/how-do-you-uninstall-mysql-from-mac-os-x/1447758#1447758. Before doing this I did run the mySQL uninstaller, but it seems to leave some goodies behind.

In the end it boiled down to running the following commands:

{% highlight bash %}
  sudo rm /usr/local/mysql
  sudo rm -rf /usr/local/mysql*
  sudo rm -rf /Library/StartupItems/MySQLCOM
  sudo rm -rf /Library/PreferencePanes/My*
  edit /etc/hostconfig and removed the line MYSQLCOM=-YES-
  rm -rf ~/Library/PreferencePanes/My*
  sudo rm -rf /Library/Receipts/mysql*
  sudo rm -rf /Library/Receipts/MySQL*
  sudo rm -rf /var/db/receipts/com.mysql.*
{% endhighlight %}

I know it's a lot of mumbo jumbo, but mySQL seems to hook itself in all over the place and this, in the end, did seem to get rid of everything.

h3. Conclusion

Well, that's all I've got for mySQL right now. It was a pretty frustrating trip, but in the end I managed to find a solution to all the problems and now it's all in one place for all of time.

As a side note I'm really starting to find "Stack Overflow":http://stackoverflow.com to be an incredibly useful resource. Sometimes it might even save time trying a quick search there before hitting up Google.