---
layout: post
title: Releasing a Gem with Gemcutter
tags: [programming, ruby, gem, tmdb_party]
author_name: John
author_uri: http://twitter.com/johnduff
---

The other day "Jon Maddox":http://github.com/maddox sent me a message on Github to see if I was thinking of putting my gem "tmdb_party":http://github.com/jduff/tmdb_party up on "Gemcutter":http://gemcutter.org/, the new RubyGem host on the block. At the time I hadn't really thought much about doing this thought what the heck? It didn't seem like it was too difficult so I thought I'd put it to the test around midnight on a Saturday night.

Well, I have got to say, this was probably the easiest thing I've ever done. I was going into this thinking it wouldn't be too difficult but I was still impressed with how it went.

# The first step is to sign up for a Gemcutter account "right here":http://gemcutter.org/session/new which takes about 10 seconds.
# The next step is to update your Jeweler Rakefile to add the Gemcutter task. I've included a sample of what my Rakefile looks like below.
{% highlight ruby %}
begin
  require 'jeweler'
  Jeweler::Tasks.new do |gem|
    gem.name = "tmdb_party"
  end
  Jeweler::GemcutterTasks.new
rescue LoadError
  puts "Jeweler not available. Install it: sudo gem install jeweler"
end
{% endhighlight %}
# Now all you need to do is push your gem the new task and provide your Gemcutter credentials
{% highlight bash %}
rake gemcutter:release
{% endhighlight %}

That's it, now my tmdb_party gem is "up on Gemcutter":http://gemcutter.org/gems/tmdb_party. On a side note, if you're not using "Jeweler":http://github.com/technicalpickles/jeweler/ to manage and release your gems you really should, it makes releasing a gem incredibly simple.

Now go put your gems up on "Gemcutter":http://gemcutter.org/!

<i>update:
"Jon":http://github.com/maddox just reminded me that if you don't want to add the Jeweler task it's still just one simple command to release your gem:

{% highlight bash %}
gem push pkg/tmdb_party_0.4.0.gem
{% endhighlight %}

Boom! Released! Thanks for the reminder Jon!</i>
