---
layout: post
title: "February 23rd OGRE Meetup Recap"
tags: [ogre, meetup, ottawa, ruby, rails, treetop, llvm]
author_name: John
author_uri: http://twitter.com/johnduff
---

I'd like to thank everyone who came out to the latest meeting, we had quite the turnout! A few new faces as well which is always great.

For anyone who doesn't know "OGRE" stands for "Ottawa Group of Ruby Enthusiasts". We're a local group that gets together on the fourth Tuesday of each month to talk about Ruby, programming, cool projects and sometimes even Python. We're a fairly diverse group from professional Ruby developers, to tinkerers, people just starting out and everything in between. Check out the "website":http://www.ottawaruby.ca/ and the "google group":http://groups.google.ca/group/ogre-list for more info.

This past Tuesday we had Don Kelly and Julie Hache giving a couple presentations. To recap:

# Don Kelly talked about TreeTop ("http://treetop.rubyforge.org/":http://treetop.rubyforge.org/) and LLVM ("http://llvm.org/":http://llvm.org/) giving us a short example of writing a very simple language with both. He also spent a bit of time showing us the SEXP parser and interpreter ("http://github.com/karfai/sexp":http://github.com/karfai/sexp) that he was working on with both of those tools. Very cool stuff.


# Julie Hache gave a presentation on some of the stuff that has changed with Rails 3 and what the upgrade process is going to look like. She also walked through how we can get setup and playing with Rails 3 right now with the beta ("http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/2010/2/5/rails-3-0-beta-release/":http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/2010/2/5/rails-3-0-beta-release/). Julie also mentioned a book that Jeremy McAnally just released with over 100 pages of info on the Rails 3 upgrade process ("http://www.railsupgradehandbook.com/":http://www.railsupgradehandbook.com/). Jeremy knows his stuff so I'm sure it will be $12 well spent.


At the end of the night Bryan Larsen gave another mention of the recent Hobo release ("http://hobocentral.net/blog/2010/02/23/hobo-1-0-released/":http://hobocentral.net/blog/2010/02/23/hobo-1-0-released/) so we should all check that out.


Once again, thanks to Julie and Don for doing the presentations and thanks for everyone who came out. We look forward to seeing all of you next month!